[downbeat twangy music]
[crickets chirping]
[The Doors'
"End of the Night"]
♪ ♪
- ♪ Take the highway
to the end of the night ♪
♪ End of the night ♪
♪ Take a journey
to the bright midnight ♪
[dogs barking]
♪ End of the night ♪
♪ Realms of bliss ♪
♪ Realms of light ♪
♪ Some are born
to sweet delight ♪
♪ Some are born to
sweet delight ♪
[lock clicks]
♪ Some are born
to the endless night ♪
♪ End of the night ♪
[vehicle humming]
[keys jingling]
[door clicks]
[ominous music]
♪ ♪
[spray can clinking]
[spray can rattling]
[spray paint whooshing]
♪ ♪
[suspenseful music]
- [grunting]
[phone clicks]
[dial tone drones]
♪ ♪
[feet thudding]
[gas whooshing]
- [coughing]
[groans]
[grunts]
♪ ♪
You tell McNair that
I'll see him in hell!
[coughing]
[yells]
♪ ♪
[vehicle door slams]
[crickets chirping]
♪ ♪
[engine turns over]
- Here's your
LA weather forecast.
Gonna be clear
and a little warmer tomorrow.
Look for lows tonight
around 60.
Tomorrow's high. 89 degrees.
It'll be 69 for the beaches.
Orange County checks in
at 78 degrees.
Hollywood. 69 degrees.
Downtown...
[moody guitar music]
♪ ♪
[wind whooshes]
[car horns honking]
[flames whoosh]
- ♪ Hey. hey. mama.
said the way you move ♪
♪ Gon' make you sweat.
gon' make you groove ♪
[Led Zeppelin's "Black Dog"]
♪ ♪
♪ Ah. ah. child.
way you shake that thing ♪
♪ Gon' make you burn.
gon' make you sting ♪
♪ ♪
♪ Ah. ah. ah. ah. ♪
♪ Ah. ah. ah ♪
- [groans]
[wincing]
[tense music]
♪ ♪
[groans]
[exhales]
[sighs]
♪ ♪
[distant siren wailing]
[soft dramatic music]
♪ ♪
- [sighs]
[rotary phone whirring]
[line ringing]
[clears throat]
- Nurse's station.
- Emma Leaphorn. please.
- Hang on.
Let me see if I can find her.
[indistinct chatter on phone]
- Hello?
This is Emma Leaphorn.
- Hi.
- I'm here in Los Angeles.
- OK.
- We're out here looking for a
runaway from St. Catherine's.
But mostly. I didn't want to
be out here and not call.
I didn't know if you'd
want me to. so I just--
- It's OK. Joe.
Thanks for letting me know.
- Yeah.
♪ ♪
I have your stir sticks
with me if you--
- Nurse Leaphorn?
- Give me two minutes.
Sorry. It's busy here.
- Yeah. I understand.
I can drop them by your
sister's if that's better.
I'm sorry. Emma. I--
I didn't mean to blindside you.
You're-- I--
- No.
[sighs]
Listen. what are you doing
for lunch?
There's a restaurant
we go to on Sunset
by the hospital. The Source.
I have half an hour.
1 o'clock?
- I wouldn't miss it.
- See you then.
- OK.
- Bye.
[phone clatters]
♪ ♪
[pensive music]
[indistinct chatter]
[door clicks]
♪ ♪
[birds cawing]
- Morning.
- You talk to your guy?
- Nothing on Gorman.
at least that he'd share.
And turns out the FBI
doesn't give a damn
about a 16-year-old rez girl.
- Where would she go?
I mean. she's got no money.
She doesn't know anyone.
This city is huge.
- Indian Center.
Everybody who comes here
from the rez
ends up there eventually.
- Where's the Indian Center?
- Wilshire and Oxford.
Meet you there.
- [sighs]
[engine rumbling]
Wow.
[sighs]
There's a map
in the glove box.
[The Rolling Stones'
"All Down the Line"]
♪ ♪
[doors slam]
- ♪ Yeah.
heard the diesel drumming ♪
♪ All down the line ♪
♪ Oh.
heard the wires-a-humming ♪
- You know. this is where
Chee and his mom came
when they left the rez?
Did you know that?
He doesn't like
to talk about it.
but it's gotta be weird
being back here.
- If you're gonna
lead people. Bern.
you gotta figure out
how to handle them.
It's not just about how they
feel. it's about how you feel.
- Right.
And the way I do things is
different than the way you do.
Look...
[sighs]
I'm not you. Joe.
If you want me to do this.
you're gonna have to
let me do things my way
and handle him my way.
- So far. your way is messy.
♪ ♪
[indistinct chatter]
[phone rings]
Where do we start?
- Reception.
I want to go home.
[camera flash whooshes]
- This is home now. Jim.
Everything's gonna be OK.
I promise.
[camera flash whooshes]
[sniffles]
I'm gonna go hit the head.
- Do you have your badge?
- Yeah.
- Hi. we're looking for
a 16-year-old Navajo girl.
Billie Tsosie.
She might have come here
looking for her cousin.
Leroy Gorman.
I'm Lieutenant Leaphorn.
This is Sergeant Manuelito.
Navajo Tribal Police.
- Oh. that's cute.
- Um. this is her.
- Sorry.
- You keep files. don't you?
- Only if she registered for
assistance. food. or housing.
- OK. where's that?
Thank you.
- You have a warrant?
- This girl's cousin
and grandfather
were brutally murdered
on the Navajo reservation
just two days ago.
She managed to get away
with no money.
no resources. and she's here.
And whoever killed her family
is looking for her.
So a warrant is not
going to help her.
We are.
- I'm sure there's a way
we could skip the red tape.
- This place is made
of red tape.
Sorry.
[phones ringing.
indistinct chatter]
[door slams]
- [sniffling. panting]
[groans]
- Hey. man.
let me help you out.
- Thanks.
- Sonny Bear Heart.
What's your name?
Where you from?
- [sighs]
Mike Garcia.
Arizona. Navajo rez.
- Relocation?
- Just got back from 'Nam.
There's no work on
the rez. so yeah.
- So you got a job out here?
- If you call standing
in the unemployment line
all day a job.
- Yeah. well. there's generally
two kinds of jobs in LA--
shit jobs and acting jobs.
And if you ain't up for
playing Indian Number One
on your favorite TV show.
you might as well
go back to the rez.
- Yeah.
- Uh-huh.
Where'd you serve?
- 173rd Airborne. War Zone C.
- 1st Marine Division.
Quang Nam province.
That was fun.
- I heard. You boys are crazy.
- [laughs]
Well. tell you what.
when you get tired of standing
on the unemployment line.
come see me.
Got an office up the street.
Cliff's Side Bar.
Gotta look out for
each other. right?
- [chuckles]
Right.
[car door slams.
engine turns over]
[engine revving]
[tires squealing]
[engine roars.
tires screeching]
[indistinct chatter]
Got us a lead.
Sonny Bear Heart.
California plates.
- Who's he?
- I don't know yet.
but he was wearing
the same kind of ring
Albert had on.
Hangs out at a bar
up the street.
wants to buy me a drink.
- You ask him about
Leroy Gorman?
- Not yet.
- He shouldn't go
in there alone.
- He didn't exactly say
bring a friend.
- We'll be outside.
You're not out in an hour.
we're coming in.
[soft dramatic music]
[Jesse Ed Davis'
"Red Dirt Boogie. Brother"]
- ♪ Can't get in touch
with jazz ♪
♪ Just plain old
rock and roll ♪
♪ Ain't got no such dream ♪
[indistinct chatter]
♪ Just got one thing
right here ♪
♪ In my boogie ♪
- Hey. you made it.
What are you drinking?
- Uh. beer. I guess.
- All right. Sit.
- ♪ That made me
keep on truckin' ♪
♪ 'Cause the red dirt boogie.
brother. ain't no jive ♪
- You hungry?
- I could eat.
- Yeah. me too.
So...
what kind of work did you do
back on the rez?
- Tour guide. Monument Valley.
- Driving people around.
seeing the sights and shit?
What kind of job is that?
- [sighs] White people
like their rocks. man.
Fuck if I know.
- [laughs]
So you can drive a car?
- Yeah. I can drive a car.
- That's a pretty good skill
to have out here.
Thank you.
- Thanks.
Uh. good enough to
get me swag like that?
- [laughs]
Yeah. I saw you eyeballing it
in the alley there.
- Well. my buddy from 'Nam
has one just like it.
Albert Gorman.
You know him?
- I know a lot of people. Mike.
Most of them I call "amigo."
'cause who can remember
all those names?
- Well. Albert said
if I ever got out here
to look up his brother. Leroy.
Said he could
help me find work.
- Doing?
- Something other than acting
and shit jobs. I hope.
[tense music]
♪ ♪
- You got a place to live?
- No.
- Here.
Get yourself a room.
some new threads.
I'm gonna have a party tonight.
Everyone who's anyone
comes to my parties.
including your friend. Leroy.
- Chicks?
- What. do you think
I just hang around
a bunch of swingin' dicks?
Every hot chick that
walks through that door
will be there.
And every hot chick
that doesn't.
well. they'll find
their way there.
- I'll be there.
Pay you back.
- Yeah. one way or another.
[pensive music]
♪ ♪
- He's having a party tonight.
Leroy'll be there.
- If Leroy's there.
maybe he brings Billie.
- Even if he doesn't.
if we get our hands on him.
we're that much closer to her.
[engine turns over]
[engines rumbling]
[distant siren wailing.
horns honking]
- [groans]
What the?
[tense music]
♪ ♪
[knocking on door]
- What's going on with you?
- Nothing.
- Chee. I know it must be hard
being back here
with what happened
with your mom and everything--
- Don't worry about it.
- Hey.
Why won't you talk to me?
I want to talk to you. I--
- [scoffs]
- I think it would
be good for you--
- You and Joe didn't think I
could handle the truth. did you?
Yeah.
That's what I thought.
- [scoffs]
So this is about that?
That's why you're
behaving like a--
- Like what?
- A jackass.
- Mm-hmm.
- See. this is exactly
what I was talking about.
Come on. don't let this
stupid job get in between us.
- You're the one
who won't let it drop.
- You don't think
I deserve it. do you?
- Sure. I do.
- Mm-hmm.
Yeah. but not over you.
- You left. Bern.
♪ ♪
- He made the decision. Chee.
Not me.
- [clears throat]
[indistinct chatter]
Hi.
- Hi.
- [clears throat]
This is your spot. huh?
- This is my spot.
- Mm.
Oh.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
- [sighs]
- So...
- How's work?
- Can't complain.
IHS is IHS no matter
what city you live in.
But it feels nice
to be appreciated again.
you know?
[indistinct chatter]
- And LA?
You like it here?
- I do.
What about you?
I want to hear all the gossip
from back home.
- There's not much
to tell. just...
you know. work.
There's a bit of new news.
I'm retiring...
as soon as I finish this case.
- You're thinking about it.
or you are?
- I gave Largo the letter.
- What're you going to do?
- I don't know.
Um...
I've been spending time
up in the mountains.
going to sweat.
talking to elders.
been doing all the things
you've always wanted me to do.
It'll come to me.
- I'm happy for you.
[soft music]
♪ ♪
- In other news.
I am happy to report
your tomatoes are thriving
under new management.
- You built the fence.
- I did.
Mmm.
[inhales]
[sighs]
Let me see your hand.
Mm.
[phone rings]
Yeah. I see some green.
- Mrs. Leaphorn?
- Yes?
- Phone.
It's Betsy from IHS.
Can I get you some coffee
while you look at the menu?
- Yeah. thanks.
- Hello?
♪ ♪
Big accident on the 101.
multiple injuries.
Kaiser's transporting
people to IHS.
Sorry. Joe.
It was really good to see you.
- So you know what you want?
- OK. now.
what if I told you
that if you added up
all the people who have died
since the dawn of time.
it would still be less
than all the people alive
right now?
We got more people than
the planet can handle.
And I'm not talking about
conspiracy theories.
No. sir.
I'm talking about--
[chains clinking]
Yep. the millions
breathing our air.
drinking our water.
stretching our resources thin.
So what's the solution?
What can you do right now.
right today?
Well. I'll tell you.
I got a buddy in Texas
building a fallout shelter.
thick steel. custom jobs.
And all you got to do
is call in now.
Tell him "Captain Midnight"
sent you.
[tense music]
♪ ♪
[latch clicks]
- [speaking German]
[door thuds. lights clicking]
Opa?
♪ ♪
[Franz Schubert's "Danksagung
an den Bach. D 795/4" playing]
♪ ♪
- [grunts]
- Opa.
- [speaking German]
[gunshot]
- Ow! Ow!
[soft dramatic music]
♪ ♪
- Now every man.
woman. and child--
[static crackling]
It is rumored that other
commodities may suffer--
[TV continues indistinctly]
People of this country
will be called upon
to give a meeting each Monday.
[gunfire]
- Ja.
- America.
[plane engines whirring on TV]
- I sure said it like that.
but I wasn't saying that.
Ah. you guys!
- The nation is patiently
awaiting the outcome
as they determine the...
[TV chatter]
- --coming from
the nation last week.
this French pronouncement.
[unsettling music]
♪ ♪
- [laughs softly]
[Santana's "Everybody's
Everything" playing]
- ♪ Let your head be free ♪
♪ Turn the wisdom key ♪
♪ Find it naturally.
see you're lucky to be ♪
[women cheering]
[excited chatter]
[suspenseful music]
♪ ♪
- Anything at the back door?
- No. Have you seen Chee?
- Yeah.
He just went in.
- ♪ Seems like
everybody's waitin' ♪
♪ For the new change
to come around ♪
♪ Come around. come around.
come around ♪
♪ Waitin' for the day ♪
♪ When the king. queen
of soul's singin' 'round ♪
♪ Singin' 'round. singin'
'round. singin' 'round ♪
♪ Singin' round ♪
♪ Singin' round for everyone ♪
♪ ♪
♪ You can understand
everything's to share ♪
- What can I get ya?
- Beer. anything
you got on draft.
And a shot of tequila.
- ♪ Turn the wisdom key ♪
♪ Find it naturally ♪
- You know that stuff will
make you go blind. right?
- Promise?
- I'm Tawny.
- Mike.
- Hi. Mike.
It's nice to meet you.
- Nice to meet you--
- Mike Garcia!
[laughs]
What's up. man?
Hey. you clean up good. man.
Come on.
Hey. don't wait up.
[laughter]
Glad you came. man.
♪ ♪
[pills rattling]
[cork squeaks]
♪ ♪
Man up.
- "Man up."
[scoffs]
- [laughs]
- All right.
[tense music]
♪ ♪
- [sniffs]
[laughs]
Whew!
♪ ♪
- [grunts]
[table rattles]
- Ooh!
- Let's dance. man.
[prison alarm buzzing]
[door clicks]
- It's done.
I expect the money to hit
my account tomorrow. as usual.
[distant prison alarm buzzing]
Everything you ordered
has been delivered.
- But I didn't order
Albert Gorman.
- Albert Gorman was
a problem for you.
No longer.
- Then why is his cousin.
a 16-year-old Navajo girl.
running all over LA
flapping her gums
about his sudden demise
and asking about his brother?
This isn't like you. Irene.
- I'll take care of the girl.
- My trial's in a week.
Between now and then.
thanks to you.
the Feds are going
to be tripping all over
your goddamn loose ends.
Still. I stand by you.
Why?
- Because I'm cute.
- If that girl talks.
this whole thing unravels.
- I'll find the girl.
But I need to get paid.
- Then you better get a mop
and clean this up.
[dramatic music]
♪ ♪
[door clicks]
[suspenseful music]
♪ ♪
- [yells]
[thunking. glass shattering]
[tool clattering]
[glass crunching]
♪ ♪
- Joe. it's Billy Tsosie.
She just went in
the back door.
I'm gonna go get her.
- Let Chee bring her out.
Bern. do you copy?
♪ ♪
Bern?
[car door slams]
[James Brown's "Get Up (I Feel
Like Being a) Sex Machine"]
- ♪ Get it together.
right on. right on ♪
♪ Get up. get on up ♪
- Excuse me.
I'm looking for Leroy Gorman.
He's my cousin.
You know him?
- I don't know you.
[indistinct chatter]
- ♪ Get up. get on up ♪
♪ Get up. get on up ♪
♪ You said ♪
♪ You said you got ♪
♪ I said the feeling ♪
♪ You got to get ♪
♪ You give me fever ♪
- So this is the spot
inside the spot.
It's invitation only.
- Yeah.
- This. Mike Garcia.
is your future.
- ♪ Get up. get on up ♪
- Where's Leroy?
- Are you loaded?
- [laughs]
You said he'd be here.
- Relax. he'll be here.
Have a drink.
Meet a chick.
- All right.
- It's a new world. Mike.
- ♪ Can I take 'em
to the bridge? ♪
♪ Go ahead ♪
♪ Take 'em to the bridge ♪
- I hear you were
looking for Leroy.
- Who are you?
Look. I don't want
any trouble. OK?
I'm from the Navajo reservation
in Arizona.
Leroy's my cousin.
His brother. Albert. was there
looking for him a few days ago.
- Leroy's on the reservation?
- He's here now. I think.
- Who told you that. Albert?
- Albert's dead.
[tense music]
A white woman shot him.
Green van. California plates--
that mean anything to you?
- Yeah.
Is that woman after you now?
- I don't know.
I just need to find Leroy.
- What did Leroy tell you
about what he was into?
- Nothing.
I never saw him.
- OK. listen.
Listen to me.
This is important.
You don't want to be here.
You don't want that woman
in that green van
to come looking for you.
These guys.
they may seem cool.
but they're not.
They're a gang. criminals.
I don't know what they do.
or what's going on
with Leroy right now.
but he's not the kind of guy
to disappear. you know?
If they even think
you know something...
You understand what I'm saying?
- No.
- See. you can end up
as dead as Albert.
♪ ♪
[War's "Slippin' into
Darkness" playing on radio]
- ♪ Slippin' into darkness ♪
[engines rumbling]
♪ ♪
[tense music]
- What's happening?
♪ ♪
- ♪ Slippin' into darkness ♪
- Uh. the usual times two.
- ♪ Take my mind ♪
- I don't feel so good.
- You look like shit. too.
- You said Leroy'd be here.
- Dude.
Every other word out of your
mouth has been "Leroy."
What's up with that?
- I'm sorry.
- Ah. I'm just
playing with you.
Whoa. where are you going?
- I think I might be--
- Whoa!
- I'm gonna be sick.
- Where are you going?
Ah!
- ♪ Slippin' into darkness ♪
♪ Yeah ♪
[indistinct chatter]
♪ When I heard ♪
♪ My mother say ♪
- [coughs]
♪ ♪
- ♪ I was slippin'
into darkness ♪
[door thudding. rattling]
- [retching]
[ominous music]
♪ ♪
- ♪ When I talk
to my brother ♪
♪ Oh. ho. ho. ho! ♪
- What's he doing in there?
- ♪ Who never said
their name ♪
♪ ♪
- [retching]
[ominous music]
[breathing heavily]
♪ ♪
[retches]
- Chee. are you in here?
- [groans]
- Oh. hey.
Hey.
What happened?
Hey. did you take something?
- Mm-hmm.
- [groans]
- Come on.
- It feels like
I puked out a rib.
- Whoa. whoa. wait a minute.
OK? Easy.
[grunts]
- [groans]
- OK.
OK. you're a mess.
We need to get you out of here.
[War's "Slippin' into
Darkness" continues]
♪ ♪
- I love you.
Bye!
[light buzzing. clicking]
[tense music]
- [groans]
[tire iron cracks]
[grunts]
♪ ♪
[unsettling music]